* Matias, J. N., Hounsel, E., Feamster, N. (2022) Software-Supported Audits of Decision-Making Systems: Testing Google and Facebook’s Political Advertising Policies. Computer-Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW)
* Matias, J., Munger, K., Le Quere, M.A., Ebersole, C. (2021) The Upworthy Research       Archive, a time series of experiments in U.S. media. Nature Scientific Data (forthcoming)
* Kaiser, B., Wei, J., Lucherini, E,. Lee, K., Matias, J.N., Mayer, J. (2020) [Adapting Security Warnings to Counter Misinformation](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity21/presentation/kaiser). 30th USENIX Security Symposium.
* Zuckerman, E., Matias, J. N., Bhargava, R., Bermejo, F., & Ko, A. (2019). [Whose Death  Matters? A Quantitative Analysis of Media Attention to Deaths of Black Americans in       Police Confrontations, 2013–2016](https://ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/8782).     International Journal of Communication, 13, 27.
* Matias, J. N. (2019). [Preventing harassment and increasing group participation through social norms in 2,190 online science discussions](/media/JNM-Preventing-Harassment-PNAS-2019.pdf). Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 116(20), 9785-9789.
* Matias, J. N. (2019). [The civic labor of volunteer moderators online](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/2056305119836778). Social Media+ Society, 5(2), 2056305119836778.
* 2018. Matias, J. N., Mou, M.   [CivilServant: Community-Led Experiments in Platform Governance](https://natematias.com/media/Community_Led_Experiments-CHI_2018.pdf). In <em>{Proceedings of the Conference on Computer Human Interaction (CHI)</em>. ACM Press.
* 2018. Gaffney D., Matias J.N. Caveat Emptor, Computational Social Science: Large-scale missing data in a widely-published Reddit corpus. PLoS ONE 13(7): e0200162.
* 2018. Gantman, A., Gomila, R., Martinez, J.E., Matias, J.N., Paluck, E.L., Starck, J., Wu, S. &; Yaffe, N. (2018). A pragmatist philosophy of psychological science and its implications for replication: Commentary on Zwaan et al. \textit{Brain and Behavioral Sciences</em>.
* 2017. Matias, J. N., Szalavitz, S., Zuckerman, E.  FollowBias: Supporting Behavior Change Toward Gender Equality by Networked Gatekeepers on Social Media. <em>{In Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work &; Social Computing</em>. ACM Press.
* 2016. Matias, J. N. The Civic Labor of Online Moderators. <em>{Oxford Internet, Policy, and Politics Conference</em>. Oxford, UK.
* 2016. Matias, J. N. Going Dark: Social Factors In Collective Action Against Online Platforms in the Reddit Blackout. <em>{Proceedings of the Conference on Computer Human Interaction (CHI)</em>. ACM Press. <em>{Best Paper Honorable Mention</em>
* 2016. Matias, J. N., Sayamindu Dasgupta, and Benjamin Mako Hill. Skill Progression in Scratch Revisited. <em>{Proceedings of the Conference on Computer Human Interaction (CHI)</em>. ACM Press.
* 2016. Spiro, E. S., Matias, J. N., &; Monroy-Hernández, A. Networks of Gratitude: Structures of Thanks and User Expectations in Workplace Appreciation Systems. <em>{Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media</em>.
* 2015. Matias, J. N., Johnson, A., Boesel, W. E., Keegan, B., Freedman, J., and DeTar, C. Reporting, reviewing, and responding to harassment on Twitter. Double-blind peer review chaired by Zeynep Tufekci. SSRN 2602018.
* 2014. Rzeszotarski, J. M., Spiro, E., Matias, J.N., Monroy-Hernández, A. Is anyone out there?: unpacking Q&;A hashtags on twitter. <em>{Proceedings of the annual ACM conference on Human factors in computing systems</em>. ACM press.
* 2010. Matias, J. N., and Cheung, F. Emberlight: share and publish spatial hypertext to the web. <em>{Proceedings of the ACM conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia</em>. ACM press. [short paper]
* 2009. Matias, J. N., and Williams, D.P. Comparing spatial hypertext collections. <em>{Proceedings of the ACM conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia</em>. ACM press.
* 2005. Matias, J. N. Philadelphia fullerine: a case study in three-dimensional Hypermedia. <em>{Proceedings of the sixteenth ACM conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia</em>. ACM press. (ACM Nelson Award) (best paper runner-up)
